PR: Add finfo and iinfo in the spec (#129)
data-apis/array-api: spec/API_specification/data_type_functions.md

# Data type functions

> Array API specification for data type functions.

A conforming implementation of the array API standard must provide and support the following data type functions.

<!-- NOTE: please keep the constants in alphabetical order -->

## Objects in API

(finfo)=
### finfo(type)

Defines the machine limits for floating point types.

#### Parameters

> -   **type**: _Union\[ float, &lt;dtype&gt, instance ]_

Reviewer: I'm not sure about adding builtins (`int`, `float`) here. NumPy seems to translate that to `int64` / `float64`, but that's not quite correct. I'd just type it as `<dtype>` instead.

Author: Yes! I agree with this, I'll leave it just as _dtype_

    -   the kind of floating point data-type about which to get information

#### Returns

-   **out**: _&lt;class&gt;_

    -   a class with that encapsules the following attributes:

        -   **bits**: _int_
            -   The number of bits occupied by the type
        -   **eps**: _float_
            -   The difference between 1.0 and the next smallest representable float larger than 1.0 following the IEEE 754 standard.
        -   **max**: _float_
            -   The largest representable number.
        -   **min**: _float_
            -   The smallest representable number.
        -   **tiny**: _float_
            -   The smallest positive representable number.

>         -   **resolution**: _float_

Reviewer: `resolution` is a little odd. For example, why is it 1e-15 for `float64` rather than 1e-16. It seems ill-motivated and imprecise, I'd rather leave it out.

# Data type functions

> Array API specification for data type functions.

A conforming implementation of the array API standard must provide and support the following data type functions.

<!-- NOTE: please keep the constants in alphabetical order -->

## Objects in API

(finfo)=

> ### finfo(type)

Reviewer: `type` should be a positional argument here, so this should be `finfo(type, /)`. 

And same for `iinfo`.

# Data type functions

> Array API specification for data type functions.

A conforming implementation of the array API standard must provide and support the following data type functions.

<!-- NOTE: please keep the constants in alphabetical order -->

## Objects in API

(finfo)=
### finfo(type)

Defines the machine limits for floating point types.

#### Parameters

-   **type**: _Union\[ &lt;dtype&gt, instance ]_

    -   the kind of floating point data-type about which to get information

#### Returns

-   **out**: _&lt;class&gt;_

    -   a class with that encapsules the following attributes:

        -   **bits**: _int_
            -   The number of bits occupied by the type
        -   **eps**: _float_
            -   The difference between 1.0 and the next smallest representable float larger than 1.0 following the IEEE 754 standard.
        -   **max**: _float_
            -   The largest representable number.
        -   **min**: _float_
            -   The smallest representable number.

>         -   **tiny**: _float_

Reviewer: @kgryte do you happen to know if this is guaranteed to be the same across implementations? I.e. it's part of IEEE 754 somehow?

Author: This is what the NumPy docs have in their notes:
> Note that tiny is not actually the smallest positive representable value in a NumPy floating point type. As in the IEEE-754 standard [1], NumPy floating point types make use of subnormal numbers to fill the gap between 0 and tiny. However, subnormal numbers may have significantly reduced precision [2].

Reviewer 2: No. While part of IEEE 754, support for subnormal numbers is less common, especially among older generation GPUs. Often subnormal numbers trigger slow paths, and, if not implemented in hardware, software emulation. More recent NVIDIA GPUs do support subnormal numbers. And among ARM processors, one can flush subnormal numbers to zero.

Based on NumPy docs (via @steff456 ), `tiny` refers to the smallest normal number. We should probably be explicit by what we mean by "representable number".

Reviewer: Interesting. So the description is a bit off here. I'm not sure it should be part of the standard. I can imagine it may be useful in a few corner cases, but I've never seen it used in the wild.

Let's see if anyone else has an opinion.

Reviewer: Okay, so there are use cases at the compiled code level at least.

Reviewer 2: I suppose having this info is useful for meta inspection concerning platform capabilities. For example, if I want to know whether a platform supports subnormals. Apart from meta data, a user would need to compute a quantity which should resolve to a subnormal number and manually check whether the value is zero.

Reviewer 2: Correct. It can also come up in user code, e.g., in the computation of transcendentals, where, if you know that a platform does not support subnormals, then you can avoid various, often slower, branching logic.

Reviewer 2: I think if we wanted to be complete, instead of "tiny", we'd have `smallest_normal` and `smallest_subnormal`. If the latter is `0`, then a platform does not support subnormal numbers.

Reviewer: Those do seem like better names indeed. TF and CuPy just alias `numpy.finfo`, which may be wrong. And JAX implements it but docs say _"The smallest positive usable number"_, which is quite uninformative.

I think we can add the new names, but then we should make a PR to NumPy to see if that's accepted. And otherwise we should probably drop it completely.

>             -   The smallest positive representable number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            -   smallest positive representable number.
```

(iinfo)=
### iinfo(type)

> Defines the machine limits for integer types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Machine limits for integer data types.
```

#### Parameters

> -   **type**: _Union\[ &lt;dtype&gt, instance ]_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **type**: _Union\[ &lt;dtype&gt, &lt;array&gt; ]_
```

>     -   the kind of integer data-type about which to get information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -   the kind of integer data-type about which to get information.
```

#### Returns

> -   **out**: _&lt;class&gt;_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **out**: _&lt;iinfo&gt;_
```

    -   a class with that encapsules the following attributes:

>         -   **bits**: _int_
>             -   The number of bits occupied by the type
>         -   **max**: _int_
>             -   The largest representable number.
>         -   **min**: _int_
>             -   The smallest representable number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        -   **bits**: _int_
            -   number of bits occupied by the type.
        -   **max**: _int_
            -   largest representable number.
        -   **min**: _int_
            -   smallest representable number.
```

(function-result_type)=
### result_type(*arrays_and_dtypes)

Returns the dtype that results from applying the type promotion rules
(see {ref}`type-promotion`) to the arguments.

```{note}

> If mixed dtypes (e.g. integer and floating-point) are used, the output of
> `result_type` will be implementation-specific.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If provided mixed dtypes (e.g., integer and floating-point), the returned dtype will be implementation-specific.
```

```

#### Parameters

> -   **arrays_and_dtypes**: _Sequence\[Union\[&lt;array&gt;, &lt;dtype&gt;\]\];_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **arrays_and_dtypes**: _Sequence\[ Union\[ &lt;array&gt;, &lt;dtype&gt; \] \];_
```

For consistency with above.
